A description for supplementary materials. Main results are shown in the article Tarasenkov M.V., Belov V.V., Engel M.V., Zimovaya A.V., Zonov M.N., Bogdanova A.S. "Algorithm for the reconstruction of the ground surface reflectance in the visible and near IR ranges from MODIS satellite data with allowance for the influence of ground surface inhomogeneity on the adjacency effect and of multiple radiation reflection from the surface" // Remote Sensing.
Folder includes file "Justification of method.pdf" and folders "AQUA" and “TERRA”. File "Justification of method.pdf " contains the following information: 1) justification of the criterion for defining isoplanar zones; 2) justification of the criterion for estimating of the adjacency effect radius; 3) justification of the criterion for estimating the radius of the additional irradiance formation; 4) construction of an approximation for Iatm; 5) algorithm for calculating the area of the territory closest to the pixel center. Folders "AQUA" and “TERRA” contain results of ground surface retrieval by three algorithms: 1) the proposed algorithm (folder “new”); 2) the algorithm MOD09 (folder “MOD09”); 3) the algorithm without atmospheric correction (folder “nocor”). Each of these folders contains four folders: “ch1”, “ch2”, “ch3”, “ch4”. Folders “ch1” contain the results for the MODIS band 1, folders “ch2” contain the results for the MODIS band 2 and so on. Each of these folders contains 4 files: “res1.txt”, “res2.txt”, “res3.txt”, “res4.txt”. File “res1.txt” contains the results for the date 01/04/2016. File “res2.txt” contains the results for the date 25/04/2016. File “res3.txt” contains the results for the date 20/05/2016. File “res4.txt” contains the results for the date 03/06/2016. All these files have the same format: 
Example: -8.265	38.352		3.8711E-02	2
-8.265 – longitude of the pixel;
38.352 – latitude of the pixel;
3.8711E-02 – recovered ground surface reflectance;
2 – cloud mask (if cloud mask = 0 it means confident cloudy;  1 – probably cloudy; 2 – probably clear; 3 – confident clear).
Contacts: principal investigator Mikhail Tarasenkov, e-mail tmv@iao.ru. Organization: V.E. Zuev Institute of Atmospheric Optics SB RAS (IAO SB RAS) Postal Address: 1, Academician Zuev square Tomsk 634055 Russia
